The story begins on a dark desert highway. The protagonist is driving towards a shimmering light in the distance. As they get closer, they see that the light is coming from a large, imposing hotel. They pull into the parking lot and are immediately greeted by a valet. The protagonist is eager to check into the hotel and explore. They are shown to their room by the bellhop, who tells them that the hotel is full of interesting guests from all over the world. The protagonist settles into their room and quickly falls asleep. In the middle of the night, the protagonist is awakened by a noise coming from down the hall. They investigate and find that there are people partying in one of the rooms. They join in the fun and eventually make their way back to their own room. The next morning, the protagonist tries to leave the hotel but finds that they are unable to leave. The doors are locked and all of the windows are barred. They return to their room and try to figure out what is going on. Later that day, they are called to dinner by one of the other guests. They sit down at a long table with several other people and share a meal. During dinner, they realize that everyone at the table is employed by the hotel in some capacity -even the other guests! After dinner, they are taken on a tour of the hotel by one of the employees. They learn that the hotel was once a mental institution and that all of the employees are actually patients who have been cured of their illnesses! The protagonist is horrified and tries to leave, but they find that they are still unable to leavethe hotel. The protagonist spends several days trying to find a way out of the hotel, but they are unsuccessful. They eventually resign themselves to their fate and begin working at the hotel as well. One night, many years later, the protagonist is awakened by a noise coming from down the hall - just as they were on their first night at the hotel! They investigate and find that there are people partying in one of rooms - just as before! The protagonist joins in t he fun once again and eventually makes their way back to their own room... only to find that it is now empty and dilapidated! The protagonist realizes that they have been stuck in an endless loop - reliving their first night at the hotel over and over again!