 Sequence. 1903. Kuban, Russian Empire.
EXT. A SMALL VILLAGE IN KUBAN. DAY.
A blissful pastoral landcape. Sunset. OS we hear an a capella singing of an old woman. It’s a Ukrainian folk song. As the camera travels through the images of a village, it reaches a close up of a young man - ALEXANDER KOSHETZ (late twenties) - focused and concentrated, he is writing.
When the singing stops, he’s revealed sitting down opposite an elderly woman, nearby a small village home. He continues writing. We hear the birds, the wind - the sudden quietness is sharply underscored.
EXT. KATERYNODAR, STREETS. DAY.
Koshetz is walking through the streets of Katerynodar. We get the feeling of the period and place. He enters a building.
INT. KATERYNODAR, AUDITORIUM. DAY.
A big and spacey auditorium. Koshetz is sat at a table, opposite him are five elderly Kuban Cossacs, all dressed up in their parade uniform. They sing. Koshetz is taking notes.
INT. KATERYNODAR, KOSHETZ’S ROOM. NIGHT.
Koshetz is working at a table. Around him are stacks of notebooks we saw in previous scenes. He looks at the notes and sings the songs quietly to himself, adding marks.
INT. KATERYNODAR INN. NIGHT.
The shabby dining room is full people. It’s loud, dark and candle-lit. Koshetz sits at one of the tables in the corner. In front of him are a few plates with the remains of food and packs of notebooks, similar to those we saw at the previous scene, he is immersed in writing.
Russian speech is heard around. Suddenly, a big group of visitors at a faraway table starts singing loudly in Ukrainian, they look cheerful and slightly drunk. The scene immediately attracts everyones attention. The waiter approaches them and says something. A fight starts. Koshetz observes the scene. There is one man, who catches his eye - SIMON PETLIURA (early twenties). He tries to resolve the situation in a peaceful manner, however the waiter has already called for gendarmes. As the gendarmes arrive they instantly pick up on the Ukrainian language and become

 aggressive towards the singing group. Koshetz jumps to protect them as an outsider. However, he too becomes a victim of the officers. Finally, the group is ushered out of the dining room.
EXT. KATERYNODAR INN. NIGHT.
The most boisterous participants of the group attempt to continue the fight with gendarmes, but Petliura and Koshetz soften things up gendermes leave. Petliura thanks him. As Koshetz introduces himself, it turns out Petliura already seems to know who he is: “So you’re that student of Lysenko everyone talks about?”.
EXT. KATERYNODAR STREETS. NIGHT.
Later same night, Koshetz and Petliura form a bond. Sharing their experiences, they talk about their childhood with priest fathers, history and music. Koshetz passionately analyses the songs he found here, in Kuban.
We learn that Petliura was expelled from the University. When Koshetz asks why, Petliura, having checked the surroundings, he hands him a brochure: “We meet on Fridays”.
INT. KATERYNODAR, PRIVATE APARTMENT. NIGHT.
Koshetz enters a small crowded apartment. Everyone is listening to someone giving a speech in a living room. As he squeezes through the corridor and reaches the room, he sees Petliura.
It’s a secret political gathering, an anti-monarchist movement. Petliura is charismatic. In his speech he talks about the dream of an independent country.
INT. KATERYNODAR, PRIVATE APARTMENT. NIGHT.
Later same night. Koshetz manages to reach Petliura and praises his speech. As Petliura offers to join their “community”, Koshetz says something along the lines of “not being a man of politics”. He says, his time in Kuban is over and presents Petliura with one of his notebooks, signed “To a man_____” (Something motivational, that will help Koshetz at the end of the film, when he gets hold of this notebook in Paris)
SEQUENCE. 1918-1919. KYIV, UKRAINE.
(A sequence that shows that Ukraine has gained independence and Petliura is a head of state )

 ALEXANDER KOSHETZ, now 46 year-old, dignified and tall man dressed in a fancy tail-coat and sporting a perfectly curled English moustache, which accentuates his rounded facial contours. Snowy and sunny morning. Koshetz is striding briskly across Volodymirska street. It’s crowded, cars and horse-drawn carriages are passing by. There are many people in military uniforms among the pedestrians. Along his way, he passes a shop, where the name plate is being changed from Russian to Ukrainian. He enters the Opera House.
INT. KYIV, UKRAINE. OPERA HOUSE. DAY.
Empty corridor in the Opera House. The sounds of a choir in rehearsal are heard.
INT. KYIV, UKRAINE. OPERA HOUSE. STAGE. DAY.
It’s a large and splendid auditorium. Koshetz is standing in the centre of the stage and conducting a choir in front of him. It’s a rehearsal. Koshetz is strict and abrupt. The choir starts and gets interrupted again and again. We observe it from afar.
INT. KYIV, UKRAINE. OPERA HOUSE. DIRECTOR’S OFFICE. DAY.
Koshetz sits opposite Director Illinsky. They are in a middle of a heated discussion. Koshetz is pushing to adjust the programming of the Opera and create a folk Ukrainian folk choir. Illinsky is hesitant. He claims that folk music has no place in the Opera, it’s not “high art”. The conversation sways into political ground from time to time and it becomes obvious that Illinsky is not an avid supporter of the recent changes in the country. He discusses the approaching arrival of the “white” monarchist forces from the South of the country and predicts the inevitable fall of the pro-Ukrainian government. Koshetz cannot be completely frank, as Illinsky possesses a higher position than him, but he recommends to worry about the real threat instead - the communists. It’s the common enemy in the face of which both Ukrainian and Russians should unite. Both try to play the game of politeness, but it’s obvious that they cannot find common ground. Koshetz leaves dissatisfied.
INT. KYIV, UKRAINE. YOUNG THEATRE.
Big decadent party. Koshetz and his choir perform at the birthday of Mykola Voronnyi. His look is sharp and focused. Koshetz is orchestrating the choir. His motions look magnetic. One second, they are precise and sharp, the next second, they are smooth and slow. The music is magnetising.
Petliura is also present at the party. We are introduced to the world of Ukrainian art and political society. Koshetz is standing in company of Voronyi, Leontovych and Petliura in the back of the hall. Music is played, there is an occasional laughter, people are dancing. Petliura, who has been a long- term friend of Koshetz for many years, is sharing anecdotes about the political elite. Everyone enjoys them. Voronyi raises a toast in the name of Petliura and the new Ukrainian state. A group of

 fashionably and eccentrically dressed people make a loud entrance. It’s the famous theatre director LES KURBAS and his actors - the party is in full swing.
At some point Koshetz shares his dissatisfaction with group. He is angry at Illinsky and claims that despite the independece - the country is still a mess, with the same old conservatives occupying positions of power. Petliura listens silently. He then asks him to come to his government office the next day.
INT. KYIV, UKRAINE. PETLIURA’S OFFICE.
Petliura tells Koshetz that he has thought about the choir and Illinsky, and has an idea for him. He proposes Koshetz to assemble a folk choir that Koshetz wanted and travel with it to Paris, in order to support the Ukrainian ambassadors at the Peace Conference, where dozens of new countries are sending out their delegates in the hope of seeking political protection. Moreover, Petliura offers a large sum of money out of the public funds to sponsor the project. He sees it as a way to prove and promote Ukraine as a country with its own unique culture and therefore deserving of an independent state. Europe’s support of Petliura and Ukraine is critical, otherwise the country will not be able sustain its independence from the Russian powers in the East (both monarchist and bolsheviks) and the Polish powers in the West for long enough.
However, Peliura mentions that on this project he will need to work with OLEKSA PRYHODKO - one of the Ministry of Culture officials. Koshetz seems to know Pryhodko and does not seem happy about it.
INT. KYIV, UKRAINE. MINISTRY OF CULTURE. DAY.
Meeting of Koshetz and the department of music, including Pryhodko. They start discussing the organizational matters of the newly-created choir. Koshetz suggests a list of singers, all of whom are well-respected professionals. They begin a fierce discussion with Pryhodko, who is an active member of the socialist party and who pushes for a more democratic approach, blaming Koshetz for being too elitist. The discussion goes on for a while and, supported by the majority, Pryhodko wins. The committee decides to hold open auditions. As Pryhodko dictates the message to be sent out to the newspapers, we see the locals reading the announcement in newspapers and on the streets and gathering for the casting.

 SEQUENCE. KYIV, UKRAINE. REHEARSAL ROOMS
The auditions, we see different kind of people attend. Most of those, lobbied by Pryhodko are unacceptable. As the audition continues, Koshetz keeps refusing Pryhodko’s candidates. None of them are good enough. Finally, Koshetz wins over Pryhodko and only takes professional singers however, we get introduced to a number of candidates, whom we will recognize later in the film). One of the sopranos that came to the audition invited by Pryhodko was Tatiana Georgievska - a woman Koshetz notices and distinguishes from the rest. He is the only one from the Pryhodko group whom he accepts. He seems surprised by her natural talent but attempts not to show it.
INT. KYIV, UKRAINE. HOUSE OF VORONNYI. EVENING.
A small but vibrant house party at the house of Voronnyi. The living room is full of the representatives of the intelligentsia. Koshetz is eagerly discussing political news with a group of friends - everyone talks about bolsheviks approaching Kyiv. At some point Koshetz is approached by Leontovych, who gives Koshetz the sheet music for his latest work - “Schedryk” (Carol of the bells). Koshetz jumps at the piano and starts playing the piece straight away, the group of guests listens in fascination. When Koshetz finishes, he softly mocks Leontovych for his trademark style, but promises to add it to the program.
INT. KYIV, UKRAINE. REHEARSAL ROOM. DAY.
A choir rehearsal is taking place in a large, Koshetz is approach by his friend - Chekhovsky. He tells Koshetz, that the Bolsheviks are almost near Kyiv and the government is being evacuated to Kamianets. He offers Koshetz a seat in a train couch and fake documents (for entering Europe) to leave Ukraine today, before the chaos begins. Koshetz hesitates.
INT. KYIV, UKRAINE. REHEARSAL ROOM. NIGHT.
The choir has gathered in the rehearsal room. Koshetz is sitting a bit off to the side. There is shouting in the room. People argue about the evacuation. Some are ready to go, others are scared. Koshetz asks everyone to come up with their own decision of whether to leave or not. Those, who are ready to continue with the Choir - should arrive at the Railway Station tomorrow.
INT/EXT KYIV, UKRAINE. ???
We see Koshetz come with a decision to stay THROUGH SOMETHING. (But what is stopping him?)
MOVE INTO 2nd ACT - Koshetz arrives at the railway station, he stays with the choir.
