Was born on the 12th September 1875 in Tarasivka, Cherkasy Oblast. In 1901 he graduated from Kyiv Theological Academy, in which he ran the choir. He got his degree in music in 1910 in Mykola Lysenko School of Music and Drama of Kyiv, where he also ran the choir and worked as a choral music teacher (1904). In connection with Mykola Lysenko he founded a choir of the ‘Boyan’ musical community (1905). From 1909 to 1917 he was the head of Kyiv University Students’ Choir. From 1913 he was a professor in a conservatory and ran a choir of Women’s Courses of Kyiv. From 1912 to 1916 he was a conductor in Sadovsky Opera of Ukraine. From 1916 to 1917 he was a conductor and a choirmaster of the Kyiv Opera House. In 1917 he was one of the founders of the First Ukrainian National Choir Capella (since 1919 – Ukrainian Republican Capella), with which he went on tour across Ukraine. In 1919 he toured abroad, in Europe and America.
He was as handsome as a noble Ukrainian in the XX century, a typical aristocratic appearance. He was a person of culture, educated, morally woke and reverend as well. Venerable, respectable, honourable, stuck to his way – his Ukrainian way. This is how we see him – externally and internally – in his photographs, his sincerely noted ‘Memoirs’ and his letters to the friends. In his private life he had a way with words, was a good storyteller, was fun to be with. He was hypnotic with his appearance (or as told nowadays his charm) to the choristers and friends. He was also known as a very vulnerable and sensitive person – this was his national, his ethnic trait. But most importantly – he was a role model in terms of nobility and honour. As we are used to saying, they don’t make them like this anymore. True pride of the nation.
The researchers say he had a unique sense of timbre and was able to assort the voices accordingly, but also an exceptional sense of rhythm. “We were astonished, delighted and hypnotized by the wide range of the timbres and the dynamical approach”, - a review in ‘The American Srbobran’ says. “We never knew it was possible to manipulate the voices so delicately, put together such an amazing result” – (“El Herald”, Mexica). “Ukrainian Choir reflected the diverse beauty of the songs perfectly. There are no words to express the impression, some new words need to be made.” ((“El Herald”, Mexica).
He was named among the best conductors of the century. Or even centuries. His professional talent was marked out by his colleagues, critiques, listeners. Lysenko appreciated him and thought of him as of the brightest student, colleague and friend simultaneously.
Oleksandr Antonovych was very demanding – both to the others and himself. He was convinced that it`s not a choir that sings – it`s a conductor who sings, and a choir only makes sounds. Just like in music, where it`s not a piano nor a violin who plays, but the musicians and the instruments only make sounds.
Since he conducted the choir with his whole heart, soul, spirit and mind, he used his eyes, facial expressions, fingers, hands and arms, he didn’t use any baton. Other conductors started copying him, which was revolutionary.
The singers submitted to him absolutely. He was the soul of the song, and the choristers were an instrument for him to play.
The listeners thought he hypnotized the singers. His energy was so strong, that the choristers submitted to it in order to perform that magic, that made people lose their minds. He led tens of choirs – big and small less and more gifted – but was equally demanding to any kind. His contemporary, professor V. Shcherbakivsky recalls what an unforgettable marvel it was to watch Koshetz rehearsing. Wizardry, a magic, a miracle was witnessed! Since Koshetz thought of the choir and himself as a united piece, he remembered all the notes by heart. His motto was “Notes shall be in one`s head, but one`s head shall not be in the notes”. Some words to live by for modern conductors who think otherwise!