1)Name: Captain Quirk

2) A two sentence de1scription of the character's personality, internal contradictions and inner conflict:

Captain Quirk is a quirky superhero with a strange unique power. Captain Quirk is always seeking to protect the innocent and help those in need, but his unorthodox methods often leave much to be desired. Captain Quirk is always striving to do what he believes is right, even if it means breaking the law.

3) A paragraph describing what the character looks and sounds like, written in the style and voice of the novel:

Captain Quirk was a tall man, built like a brick house. He had muscles on top of muscles, and had a thick head of curly brown hair. His eyes were piercing blue, and his teeth were perfectly white. He always wore a blue cape with a big yellow 'Q' on the back, and he carried a large silver hammer with him everywhere he went. He spoke with a deep booming voice, and had a tendency to talk excessively whenever he got excited.

4) A history of the character's life up to now:

Captain Quirk was born Quentin Quirksberg on April 1st, 1978. Quentin was always a bit of an oddball, and he was always getting into trouble as a kid. His parents didn't know what to do with him, so they sent him to military school in hopes that it would help him channel his energy in a positive way. It didn't quite work out that way. Quentin ended up getting kicked out of military school for causing too much mischief. After that, he drifted from job to job, never really finding anything that fit him. That is until he discovered his true calling as a superhero. For the past few years, Captain Quirk has been using his strange powers to help people in need and fight crime. He's still not quite sure what his powers are or how they work, but that doesn't stop him from using them to do good in the world.

5) Archetype: The Superhero
6) Quirks and flaws: Captain Quirk is very quirky and eccentric, which often gets him into trouble. He is also impulsive and tends to act without thinking things through first. As a result, his actions often have unintended consequences. 
7) A description of the character using the big 5 personality traits psychological assessment method: Captain Quirk is an extroverted, intuitive, feeling individual who is also high in openness to experience (i.e., he is very creative and open-minded). His impulsiveness likely stems from low agreeableness (i.e., he does not respond well to rules or authority figures) and high neuroticism (i.e., he is easily agitated or stressed).