The story begins with a mother and daughter moving into a new house. The daughter is excited to explore the new house and the mother is happy to have a fresh start. The family is struggling to get by financially and the mother is hoping that the new house will be a better place for them. The first night in the new house, the daughter hears strange noises coming from the attic. She tells her mother but her mother dismisses it as the settling of the house. The next day, the daughter finds a key hidden in the ivy and she unlocks the door to the attic. She finds a dusty old trunk with a letter from a woman who used to live in the house. The letter tells the story of a woman who was living in the house during the Civil War. The woman's husband was away fighting in the war and she was left alone with her young son. The woman was struggling to get by and she decided to take in boarders to help make ends meet. One of these boarders was a man who claimed to be a doctor. The woman's son became ill and she asked the doctor to help him. The doctor gave her son a potion that he said would cure him but it only made him worse. The woman's son died and she blamed the doctor for his death. She locked him in the attic and left him there to die. The daughter is horrified by this story and she tells her mother what she has read. Her mother does not believe her and she tells her not to go into the attic again. The daughter is determined to find out what happened to the doctor and she starts doing some research. She finds out that the doctor was actually a quack and he killed many people with his fake cures. She also discovers that he was planning on running away with the woman's money before her son died. The daughter decides to confront her mother with this information but her mother still does not believe her. One night, while they are all sleeping, the daughter hears strange noises coming from upstairs again. She gets out of bed and goes to investigate. She finds her mother sleepwalking towards the attic door with a key in her hand. The daughter tries to stop her but her mother breaks free and goes into the attic. The daughter follows her and finds her mother standing over the trunk with a knife in her hand. Her mother wakes up from her trance just in time to stop herself from harming herself or her daughter. The family decides to leave the house after that and they never speak of what happened there again.