The story begins with a focus on Alexander Koshetz, a young man in his late twenties who is living in Kuban, Russian Empire in 1903. He is writing down Ukrainian folk songs that he hears an old woman singing. The camera shows a close up of his face as he is focused and concentrated on his work. Koshetz then walks through the streets of Katerynodar and enters a building. He is sitting at a table in an auditorium, taking notes as five elderly Kuban Cossacks sing. Koshetz continues working on his project into the night, and we see stacks of notebooks surrounding him as he works. Later, Koshetz is sitting in a shabby dining room of an inn when a group of visitors start singing loudly in Ukrainian. A fight breaks out and Koshetz tries to protect the group from the aggressive gendarmes. He is injured in the process, but becomes friends with Simon Petliura, one of the men in the group. Petliura introduces Koshetz to the world of Ukrainian politics and invites him to join their "community". Koshetz declines, saying that he is not a man of politics and needs to finish his work in Kuban. However, he does give Petliura one of his notebooks as a gift before leaving. The story then jumps to 1918-1919 and Kyiv, Ukraine where we see Koshetz has become a 46 year old man with an English moustache. He is now the head of a folk choir that he has assembles, and they are rehearsing in an opera house. There is tension between Koshetz and the Opera House director Illinsky about whether folk music has a place in the high art of the Opera. Later, at a party thrown by Mykola Voronnyi, Petliura shares anecdotes about the political elite with Voronnyi and Koshetz. All are enjoying themselves until fashionably dressed theatre director Les Kurbas arrives with his actors and crashers the party. Koshetz becomes angry and frustrated with how things have not changed since Independence from Russia was gained, and Illinsky still holds power within the Opera House.. Petliura invites Koshetz to his office where he offers him a job to take his choir to Paris in order to support Ukrainian ambassadors at the Peace Conference. Europe's support of Petliura and Ukraine is critical at this time so that Ukraine can maintain its independence from Russia (monarchist and bolshevik) threats from the East, as well as Polish threats from the West.. Pryhodko will be helping with organizing the tour, but this does not sit well with Koshetz who remembers him from previous auditions where he did not allow any non-professionals into the choir. Koshetz continues to rehearse with his choir while more political unrest builds outside Kyiv as Bolsheviks approach