The story begins in 1903 in a small village in Kuban, where we are introduced to Alexander koshetz, a young man who is passionate about music and writing. He is sitting down opposite an elderly woman, writing a song. The scene then transitions to Katerynodar, where Koshetz is conducting a choir in front of five elderly Kuban cossacks. We see Koshetz working on his music in his room at night, and then later at an inn where he is interrupted by a group of Ukrainians who are singing loudly. There is a fight that breaks out, and Koshetz is aggressive towards the officers. He then becomesfriends with Simon Petliura, who introduces him to the world of Ukrainian art and political society. In 1918-1919, Kyiv Ukraine gains independence from Russia, and Koshetz is now the head of state for the Opera House. He is pushing for Ukrainian folk music to be included in their programming, but the director Illinsky disagrees. Koshetz leaves dissatisfied and goes to a party where he meets Petliura again. Petliura offers him a job to assemble a folk choir that will travel with him to Paris in order to support the Ukrainian ambassadors at the Peace Conference. However, he must work with Oleksa Pryhodko - one of the Ministry of Culture officials whom Koshetz does not seem happy about. Koshetz holds auditions for his choir, and Pryhodko pushes for a more democratic approach by holding open auditions for anyone who wants to try out. This angers Koshetz because he only wants professional singers. However, he eventually relents and allows Pryhodko's candidates to try out. One of the sopranos that came to the audition invited by Pryhodko was Tatiana Georgievska - a woman Koshetz notices and distinguishes from the rest because of her natural talent. As the Bolsheviks approach Kyiv, there is panic and many people are trying to leave the city. Chekhovsky offers Koshetz a seat in a train couch and fake documents (for entering Europe) to leave Ukraine today, before the chaos begins, but Koshetz hesitates. He calls for a meeting with his choir and asks everyone whether they want to stay or leave. Those who are ready to continue with him should arrive at the Railway Station tomorrow morning. Koshetz arrives at the railway station with his choir and they depart for Paris. They are warmly welcomed by the Ukrainian ambassadors at the Peace Conference and begin to perform around Europe. Their music is met with great acclaim everywhere they go, and they quickly become one of