The story begins with the discovery of a dead body in a locked room. The victim is a woman in her early twenties, and the cause of death is unknown. The detective in charge of the case, John Doe, is stumped. There are no signs of forced entry, and the only other person with a key to the room is the victim's roommate, who has an iron-clad alibi. Doe decides to search the victim's room for clues. He finds a notebook hidden under the mattress, which contains coded messages. After breaking the code, Doe discovers that the victim was receiving threatening messages from someone. The messages seem to be coming from her ex-boyfriend, who she broke up with several months ago. Doe interviews the ex-boyboyfriend, who denies any involvement in the death. However, Doe finds evidence that he has been following the victim and knows more about her movements than he is letting on. Doe continues to investigate and discovers that several other people had motive to kill the victim. The victim was involved in a love triangle with her roommate and another man. She was also blackmailing her boss, who she had caught embezzling money from the company. As Doe investigates each suspect, he realizes that each of them has an alibi for the time of death. He is no closer to solving the case when he gets a call from the victim's roommate. She says she remembers something important that may help solve the case. When Doe arrives at the roommate's apartment, he finds her dead body in her bedroom - apparently killed in the same manner as the first victim. The only clue is a piece of paper with a telephone number on it. Doe calls the number and it leads him to a payphone outside an abandoned warehouse. When he goes inside, he finds evidence that someone has been living there - food wrappers, clothes, etc. He also finds photographs of himself and the two victims - as well as photos of other people around town. Doe realizes that he is being watched by someone and decides to set a trap. He arranges for all possible suspects to meet him at the warehouse at midnight, telling each one that he has new evidence implicating them in the murders. When everyone arrives at midnight, they are shocked to see each other there - none of them realized that they were all suspects in the case. The room is locked from the inside, and there seems to be no way out...