1)Name: Damien Drake
 

2
 

2) A two sentence de1cription of the character's personality, internal contradictions and inner conflict
 

 Damien is a British trucker from a poor community in Northern England. He has a strong moral compass and often ends up in trouble by defending the weak. He is a born protector.
 


 
3) A paragraph describing what the character looks and sounds like, written in the style and voice of the novel
 Damien is a big man, standing at six and a half feet tall, with broad shoulders and arms that look like they could snap a man in half. His hands are calloused from years of driving and working on engines, and his face is lined with wrinkles from years spent out in the elements. He has blue eyes that seem to miss nothing, and a shock of curly brown hair that he keeps trimmed short. He speaks with a deep, gravelly voice that seems to echo in your head long after he's stopped talking.
 
4) A history of the character's life up to now
 Damien was born in a small town in Northern England, the eldest son of a working class family. He left school at sixteen to start working on the family's farm, but he quickly realized that it wasn't for him. So he took up truck driving instead. He's been on the road ever since, criss-crossing the country (and sometimes even Europe) hauling whatever goods need to be transported. He's seen a lot of things in his years on the road, and he's developed a strong sense of right and wrong. When he see someone being bullied or taken advantage of, he can't help but step in - even if it means getting into a fight or two. That sense of justice has gotten him into more than one scrap over the years, but it's also one of the things that makes him who he is.
 
5) Archetype
 The Hero
 
6) Quirks and flaws
 Damien has a bit of a temper, and he's not afraid to use his fists to settle an argument. He's also not very good at backing down once he's made up his mind about something. That can sometimes get him into trouble - especially when he's defending someone who can't defend themselves. But it's also one of the things that make him so good at what he does. 
 
7) A description of the character using the big 5 personality traits psychological assessment method: Damien is high in agreeableness and conscientiousness, which makes him kind-hearted and principled. He is low in neuroticism, which makes him resistant to stress and anxiety. He is high in openness to experience, which makes him curious and imaginative. And finally, he is high in extraversion, which means he is outgoing and sociable.