1)Name: Percy Jackson

2) Atwo sentence description of the character's personality, internal contradictions and inner conflict: Percy Jackson is a 12 year old boy who has been diagnosed with ADHD and dyslexia. He is also the son of Poseidon, making him a demigod. As a result, Percy struggles with feeling like an outsider, both in the human world and in the world of the gods.

3) A paragraph describing what the character looks and sounds like, written in the style and voice of novel: Percy is a 12 year old boy with sandy blond hair and blue eyes. He is of average height for his age and has a slim build. Percy typically wears jeans and a t-shirt, but he also has a pair of brown leather boots that he wears when he goes on adventures. He has a scar on his right cheek that he got when he was attacked by a minotaur. When Percy speaks, his voice is clear and confident, but there is often a mischievous glint in his eye.

4) A history of the character's life up to now: Percy was born on August 18th, 2006 to Poseidon and Sally Jackson. When he was two, his parents divorced and Sally married Gabe Ugliano, who Percy HATED. When Percy was six years old, he found out that his father was Poseidon when Gabe tried to sell him to Hades in exchange for a favor. Shortly after, Hades sent some monsters after Percy to try and kill him, but Percy ended up killing them instead. Since then, he has been attending Camp Half-Blood, which is a camp for demigods. He has gone on many adventures with his friends Annabeth Chase (daughter of Athena) and Grover Underwood (a satyr).

5) Archetype: The Hero
6) Quirks and flaws: ADHD, dyslexia, impulsive, rash decisions
7) A description of the character using the big 5 personality traits psychological assessment method:

Percy Jackson is an extroverted individual who tends to act before thinking things through. He is also quite intelligent, despite his dyslexia diagnosis. He can be impulsive at times and make rash decisions without thinking about the consequences. However, he also possesses great strength of character and is always willing to fight for what he believes in - even if it means putting himself in danger.