The story begins with Damien Drake, a trucker from Northern England, driving his truck through the night. He's been on the road for days, and he's just about ready to reach his destination. But as he's driving, he sees something that makes him stop his truck. There's a car on the side of the road, and it looks like it's been in an accident. Damien knows he should just keep driving - after all, it's none of his business. But his conscience gets the better of him, and he decides to stop and see if he can help. When he gets to the car, he sees that there are two people inside - a man and a woman. The woman is badly injured, and the man is trying to help her. Damien can see that the man is panicking, and he knows he needs to take charge. He helps the man get the woman out of the car, and then takes them both back to his truck. He drives them to the nearest town, where he gets them help. The woman ends up being all right, but the man is Grateful for Damien's help. He asks Damien if there's anything he can do to repay him, and Damien says there is one thing - he wants to hire him as a bodyguard. The man agrees, and Damien starts working for him. But as Damien gets to know his new employer, he realizes that there's more to him than meets the eye. The man is involved in some shady business deals, and Damien doesn't approve of them. But he feels like he owes the man for saving the woman's life, so he decides to stay on and protect him - even if it means getting his hands dirty. The story comes to a head when Damien discovers that his employer is planning to betray a business associate. He knows that if he does nothing, innocent people will be hurt - maybe even killed. So he does the only thing he can do - he phones the police and tips them off about the plot. Then he goes back to protect his employer, even though it means risking his own life. In the end, Damien is successful in stopping the betrayal from happening. But his employer is arrested, and Damien knows he'll never see him again. As he drives away from the town where it all happened, Damien reflected on everything that's happened - and everything that's yet to come