The story begins with Damien Drake, a trucker from Northern England, arriving in the small town of Silent Hill. He's been hired to haul a load of construction supplies to the local warehouse, but he quickly discovers that there's something very wrong in Silent Hill. The town is shrouded in a thick fog, and the only people he sees are strange creatures that seem to be made of smoke and ash. 

He tries to leave Silent Hill, but the fog is too thick and he can't find his way out. He eventually comes across a group of people who are also lost in the fog. 

They tell him that they were lured to Silent Hill by a woman in white, and they're all looking for a way out. Damien joins forces with them, and together they start exploring the town in search of a way out. 

They soon discover that Silent Hill is a place where people go when they've done something bad enough to warrant being sent there. The people who are trapped in Silent Hill are forced to relive their worst memories over and over again. 

Damien soon realizes that if he doesn't find a way out of Silent Hill, he's going to be stuck there forever. The group starts seeing more and more people as they explore the town, all of them lost and looking for a way out. Damien eventually comes across the woman in white, who tells him that only by facing his deepest fears will he be able to leave Silent Hill. 

Damien realizes that if he wants to get out of Silent Hill, he's going to have to confront the thing that he's most afraid of. He leads the group through the town, towards the source of his fear. As they get closer, Damien starts having flashbacks to his time in Northern Ireland during The Troubles. He was part of a group of British soldiers who were sent into Belfast to quell the riots, but instead they ended up becoming targets themselves. One night, while they were patrolling the streets, they were ambushed by a group of IRA gunmen. 

Damien was the only one who survived the attack, but he was left with severe PTSD as a result. The group finally reaches the source of Damien's fear - a derelict building that was once an IRA safe house. 

Inside, Damien comes face to face with his fear - literal ghosts of his dead comrades from Northern Ireland. He's able to overcome his fear and banish the ghosts back to wherever they came from. With his fear conquered, Damien is finally able to leave Silent Hill and return to the real world.