Examples of neutral text rewritten in a paired down, hardboiled thriller style with direct, active language (1st person POV):

NEUTRAL PROSE: dawn is beautiful over Anoach Mor, but it's a wild landscape only good for sheep,  and dawn was a long time ago

REWRITE: When the dawn fog lifts and the day cracks open over Aonach Mor, it’s something to see.  The drystone walls of a landscape fit for nothing but sheep turn bright yellow-green in the damp air.  Aside from them, man’s heavy handprint has been lifted from the land and primal forest is in the ascendancy.  But dawn was a long time gone and the heavy, grey dusk was swallowing the cold day whole like an oily old snake.

NEUTRAL PROSE: Callum Adair looked along the wall that led down to the forest.  he'd mended the wall several times over the years, but each time it had fallen down again.  repairing it was a job he wasn't looking forward to.

REWRITE: Callum Adair traced the line of the south wall with his eyes. Down the high slope and into the forest.  That wall would need fixing up again.  He’d remade the turn-down half a dozen times in as many years, and he’d never got it right.  Each time, when the autumn storms started biting, it had fallen, and now it was down again.  He could see the tumble of grey stone.  That would be a cold old job for the winter, if his fingers were up to it.  Not today, in any case.

NEUTRAL PROSE: the living room was lit by the streetlamp outside.  the room was a mess, all joy had gone.  she could not leave the room.

REWRITE: Yellow slashes carved their paths to draws open like broken teeth.  Sofas slept diagonally across the space between flattened cushions. Jagged anger made of brittle glass shone dully in everythign touched by moonlight. It had been like this since he left.   Clothes thrown carelessly over surfaces.  An ashtray, still half full, precariously balanced on the arm of the chair.  No, she could not leave this room.  It was her prison, and it was all she deserved.

NEUTRAL PROSE: the car was clean
REWRITE: glass-smooth paint, fearful of fingerprints, reflected as though its reflections lived dangerous lifestyles. Waxy-clean windows, unblemished by streaks of rain or dust. The car was fastidious it was clinical. it was unreal.