Examples of neutral text rewritten to create vivid evocative, imaginative and colourful descriptions

NEUTRAL PROSE: This is a smokey industrial town.

REWRITE: The idiosyncrasy of this town is smoke. It rolls sullenly in slow folds from the great chimneys of the iron-foundries, and settles down in black, slimy pools on the muddy streets. Smoke on the wharves, smoke on the dingy boats, on the yellow river--clinging in a coating of greasy soot to the house-front, the two faded poplars, the faces of the passers-by.


NEUTRAL PROSE: It was a cold and rainy winter afternoon.

REWRITE: It was a cold grey day in late November. The weather had changed overnight, when a backing wind brought a granite sky and a mizzling rain with it, and although it was now only a little after two o'clock in the afternoon the pallor of a winter evening seemed to have closed upon the hills, cloaking them in mist.


NEUTRAL PROSE: Roads led up into the Alps.

REWRITE: Rock arose from the ground as if it reached for the sky - the peaks of the Alps sculpted by the raindrops of eons. They were green at their base, the forests gathered by nature's wand. Then there were the roads that climbed the Alps, wending this way and that, making tight turns that felt for all the world as a fair ground ride.


NEUTRAL PROSE: I loved the barn on the hill.

REWRITE: The barn blossomed on the hill amid the grass and the meadow flowers, as if one day it sprung up from some precious seed. I guess what I'm saying is, it belonged there, and if it were absent the picture of that landscape would be missing something very special. So though the timbers were aged and the light that streamed in from the holey roof illuminated the dust like ethereal confetti - it was truly a great place, I loved it.



NEUTRAL PROSE: I saw a young man dressed in green.  He was carrying a bag.  He looked strong.

REWRITE: As we drew closer, the figure became clearer, It was a young man, or a boy, dressed loosely in a drab green T-shirt and baggy green trousers. He had a green army jacket tied around his waist and a green canvas bag slung over his shoulder. The only non-green thing about him was the pair of scruffy black walking boots on his feet. Although he was on the small side, he wasn’t as slight as I first thought. He wasn’t exactly muscular, but he wasn’t weedy-looking either…there was an air of hidden strength about him, a graceful strength that showed in his balance, the way he held himself, the way he walked